# negative-density-regulated-contest-performance

This project includes the raw data of the research article 'Negative density-regulated contest performance promotes conflict resolution in a tree lizard' by Hsu et al.

## Abstract ##
1. Territoriality is a behavioral adaptation resulting from intraspecific competition and reflects the strategy of how individuals share limited resources in the environment. As a consequence, territorial contests and levels of aggressiveness are strongly influenced by population density.
2. The positive relationship between population density and the intensity of intraspecific competition may appear straightforward. However, empirical evidence regarding this association remains inconclusive. This ambiguity may be attributed to studies that have predominantly focused on specific fight-associated traits while overlooking the comprehensive assessment of multiple phenotypic characteristics.
3. To examine the effects of population density and other ecological factors on the variation in fight behavior as well as fight-associated morphology and performance. We conducted population surveys and behavioral experiments using the Swinhoe’s tree lizard across eight populations.
4. Our findings revealed that males from higher-density populations tended to engage in less intense fights and exhibited a weaker resident advantage in fights, which coincided with our findings on lower rates of injuries, weaker bite forces, and smaller body sizes (and vice versa). Male-specific plasticity in fight behavior, morphology, and performance along a density gradient suggests different evolutionary equilibria in territoriality influenced by local costs and benefits.
5. Our study supports the significant role of negative density dependence as a fundamental regulator of eco-evolutionary dynamics. The observed phenotypic plasticity emphasizes the importance of ecological and social factors in shaping ontogenetic growth and life-history strategies. Our findings provide a basis for future investigations into pace-of-life syndromes and shed light on how phenotypic adaptation may shape population structure.
